feat(poo/design_patterns): translate `OBSERVER_PATTERN` to english (#32)
readthedocs-fr/notions: poo/design_patterns/en/OBSERVER_PATTERN.md

---

Let's pose the situation.

You work for a home automation company.

Your company decide to develop a way to enable some systems when any alarm goes on within a certain radius.

Your line manager ask you to design a prototype.

Without using the **Observer Pattern**, the code could look like this :

```java
class Alarm {
    
    /*
      Here the way alert() 
      gets called don't matter. 
      It's an example of "easy code"
    */
    public void alert(){
        /*
          And again, some easy code.
          I didn't define the house variable 
          but we can assume what it contains 
        */
        Police.sendTheftAlert(this.house.getAddress());
        this.house.lockAllDoors();
        this.house.getOwner().sendMessage("Someone entered your house !");
        //...
    }
}
```

Here, 2 problems arise :

1. The alarm isn't supposed to know the systems which react to it.
2. If we want to add a new auto-activable system, we would have to create it and next add it in the `alert()` method. By doing this, the method could have lines and lines in the long run.

## So, what do we do Einstein ?

> The **Observer Pattern** is born for this kind of situation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Observer Pattern** was born for this kind of situation.
```

> This pattern is made of 2 subjects, like said earlier : an **observable** subject and one or more **observer** subject.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This pattern is made of 2 subjects, as said earlier: an **observable** subject and one or more **observer** subjects.
```

We'll use the abstraction principle to write a reusable code in most or all cases.

```java
interface Observer {

}

interface Observable {

}
```

> These interfaces seem very empty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These interfaces seem very empty... for now.
```

> With this pattern, a class so-called **Observer** must be notifiable at any time of the day and night and an **observable** class must notify each one of the elements which are observing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this pattern, a so-called **Observer** class must be notifiable at any time of the day and night and an **observable** class must notify each one of the elements which are observing it.
```

Let's add these 2 methods :

```java
interface Observer {
    void notify();
}

interface Observable {
    void notifyObservers();
}
```

> Okey </br> Of course we must be able to link an **Observer** to an **Observable** element :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Okay.

Of course we must be able to link an **Observer** to an **Observable** element :
```

```java
interface Observer {
    void notify();
}

interface Observable {
    void notifyObservers();
    void addObserver(Observer observer);
}
```

Let's try to rewrite our alarm system making use of these 2 interfaces :

```java
class Alarm implements Observable {
    
    private final List<Observer> observers = new ArrayList<>();
    
    public void alert() {
        notifyObservers();
        this.speaker.startAlarm();
    }

    @Override
    public void addObserver(Observer observer) {
        observers.add(observer);
    }
    
    @Override
    public void notifyObservers() {
        observers.foreach(Observer::notify);
    }
}

class PoliceCallerComponent implements Observer {
    
    @Override 
    public void notify() {
        System.out.println("Police successfully called");
    }
}

class DoorLockerComponent implements Observer {

    @Override
    public void notify() {
        lockAllDoors();
        System.out.print("The thief is blocked inside");
    }

    private void lockAllDoors() {
        //...
    }

}

//...
```

> *I'm not going to write all of the systems, you understood the main idea.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*I'm not going to write all the systems, you understood the main idea.*
```

> You can't figure yourself what the method `notifyObservers()` will produce ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can't figure out how the `notifyObservers()` method works?
```

Go read the course about the [functional interfaces](https://github.com/readthedocs-fr/notions/blob/master/java/interfaces_fonctionnelles/en/FUNCTIONAL_INTERFACES.md) as well as the note about the [Method Referencing](https://github.com/readthedocs-fr/notions/blob/master/java/interfaces_fonctionnelles/en/FUNCTIONAL_INTERFACES.md#toujours-plus-court-toujours-plus-loin).

This line will produce the same effect as the following for loop :
       
```java
    for(Observer observer : observers) {
        observer.notify();
    }
```

> We now have a code that perfectly suits the **Observer Pattern**. Let's add a control center for the realistic touch and it will surely please to our boss.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now have a code that perfectly suits the **Observer Pattern**. Let's add a control center for the realistic touch and it will surely please our boss.
```

```java
class ControlCenter {

    private static Alarm alarm;

    public static void main(String[] args) {

        alarm = new Alarm();

        alarm.addObserver(new PoliceCallerComponent());
        alarm.addObserver(new DoorLockerComponent());
        //...

       System.out.println("Alarm successfully initialized");
    }

}
```

Perfect !

> Now, as soon as the `alert()` method from the `Alarm` class gets called, each one of its **Observers** will get notified and will react in consequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, as soon as the `alert()` method from the `Alarm` class gets called, each one of its **Observers** will get notified and will react accordingly.
```

> And as bonus, our code follows a realistic logic, it's not the alarm which knows its **Observers** but our **control center** which defines what will happen when our alarm goes on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And as a bonus, our code follows a realistic logic, since it's not the alarm that knows its **Observers** but rather our **control center**, which defines what will happen when our alarm occurs.
```

While speaking about the [SOLID](https://github.com/readthedocs-fr/notions/tree/master/poo/principes_solid/) principles, we can also notice the `D` letter principle named the `Dependency Inversion principle`. Indeed, by making use of `Observer` and `Observable` interfaces, we have build a code that directly refers to abstractions and not to implementations. Our `addObserver(Observer observer)` method takes an object of type `Observer` as parameter. We can pass it any **Observer** implementation, the class implementing the `Observable` interface will never have to deal with the implementation. It's a significant point in maintenability and readibility of our code because we will never have to care of consequences a new implementation will have on the global code, at least not of the POV of our **Observer Pattern**.

## Conclusion

> We have seen the problem type that an **Observer Pattern** can fix and its conception step by step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have seen the kind of problem that an **Observer Pattern** can fix and its conception step by step.
```

Overall, we must remember that :

> - This pattern allows us to split our code in many parts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This pattern allows us to split our code into many parts.
```

> - It helps us to store our code with a better logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It helps us store our code with better logic.
```

- It's based on 2 important interfaces : **Observer** and **Observable**.

> - The **Observable** class notify each one of its **Observers** when it switch of state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **Observable** class notifies each one of its **Observers** when its state changes
```

> - It helps us to easily enforce 2 of the [**SOLID**](https://github.com/readthedocs-fr/notions/tree/master/poo/principes_solid/) principles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It helps us easily enforce 2 of the [**SOLID**](https://github.com/readthedocs-fr/notions/tree/master/poo/principes_solid/) principles.
```

---

<ins>Notes :</ins>

> I presented here the **Observer Pattern** in its purest style. Of course, you can ajust it according to your desires. For example, the **Observer** `notify()` method can take a parameter to pass it to each **Observer**. In my case, I could have passed the house address if I had had this need. The method's signature would have looked to `void notify(Address address);`. The `notifyObservers()` method can also get fitted out according to your needs and you can also include some other methods that look usefull for you in your case. The idea stay the same. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I presented here the **Observer Pattern** in its purest style. Of course, you can adjust it according to your desires. For example, the **Observer** `notify()` method can take a parameter to pass it to each **Observer**. In my case, I could have passed the house address if I had had this need. The method's signature would have looked like this: `void notify(Address address);`. The `notifyObservers()` method can also get fitted out according to your needs and you can also include some other methods that look useful for you in your case. The idea stays the same. 
```

> The reactive paradigm uses and greatly amplifies this principle, I let you inquire on the official website of the [Reactor.io](https://projectreactor.io) project which is one of the best, if not the best, know of the Java libraries for reactive programming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reactive paradigm uses and greatly amplifies this principle, I let you inquire on the official website of the [Reactor.io](https://projectreactor.io) project which is one of the best, if not the best known amongst the Java libraries for reactive programming.
```

> The **Observer Pattern** suits really good with an Entity Component System (abreviated ECS) for those who have already heard of it. An article will maybe someday get written about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Observer Pattern** is very suitable with an Entity Component System (abbreviated ECS) for those who have already heard of it. An article will maybe someday be written about it.
```

```java
interface Observer {
    void notify();
}

interface Observable {
    void notifyObservers();
    void addObserver(Observer observer);
}
```

Let's try to rewrite our alarm system making use of these 2 interfaces :

```java
class Alarm implements Observable {
    
    private final List<Observer> observers = new ArrayList<>();
    
    public void alert() {
        notifyObservers();
        this.speaker.startAlarm();
    }

    @Override
    public void addObserver(Observer observer) {
        observers.add(observer);
    }
    
    @Override
    public void notifyObservers() {
        observers.foreach(Observer::notify);
    }
}

class PoliceCallerComponent implements Observer {
    
    @Override 
    public void notify() {
        System.out.println("Police successfully called");
    }
}

class DoorLockerComponent implements Observer {

    @Override
    public void notify() {
        lockAllDoors();
        System.out.print("The thief is blocked inside");
    }

    private void lockAllDoors() {
        //...
    }

}

//...
```

*I'm not going to write all the systems, you understood the main idea.*

Can't figure out how the `notifyObservers()` method works?

> Go read the course about the [functional interfaces](https://github.com/readthedocs-fr/notions/blob/master/java/interfaces_fonctionnelles/en/FUNCTIONAL_INTERFACES.md) as well as the note about the [Method Referencing](https://github.com/readthedocs-fr/notions/blob/master/java/interfaces_fonctionnelles/en/FUNCTIONAL_INTERFACES.md#toujours-plus-court-toujours-plus-loin).

Reviewer 2: Maybe use the english version? (for the 2nd link)

Author: This article isn't translated yet.
I wrote this following the theoretical future path.
But, indeed, I should have translated the subtitle.
